---
title: "Letters to The Age, 20 June 2015"
date: 2015-06-20
draft: false
tags: ["The Age"]
categories: ["letter"]
---

(replies to my letter on 14 June 2015)


### Federal politics: PM channels King John by hook or by crook


Doesn't a vessel in Indonesian waters en route to New Zealand have a right of
passage according to the UN Convention on The Law of the Sea (1982) to which
Australia is a signatory? Last week we celebrated the 800th anniversary of
Magna Carta, which delineates the subjugation of our sovereignty to the law.
Maybe Tony Abbott is playing King John, with his "by hook or by crook" methods.
Especially since the Tampa crisis in 2001, successive governments have eroded
respect for the law. We are signatories to the UN Convention on Refugees (1954)
and protocol (1967); to the UN Council for Human Rights and the UN Convention
on the rights of the Child. When the law doesn't suit, politicians simply
change it: migration zones, border security and now the (insidious) Border Bill
before the Senate. And a paradox of this veil of secrecy? The people smugglers
know what's going on, on the high seas and in detention camps. It is us mugs at
home who don't. For how long are we Australians prepared to tolerate this
Orwellian behaviour (Letters, 14-6)?

**Ros de Bruin, Balwyn**

![Golding cartoon](/20150620-theage-golding-judge.jpg)

### Little hope for the rule of law

Colin Simmons (Letters, 14-6) has nailed it. In my long and fortunate life,
I've never witnessed such incompetence and insincerity in our national leaders.
It is not just the gobbledegook: ideologues lead the dominant factions and
their ideology is toxic. Gaffes come thick and fast. We now have the spectacle
of the chief law officer displaying contempt for the principles of natural
justice, and the chief financial officers showing ignorance of economic theory
and practice. What hope, then, of the rule of law and economic wellbeing? On
their altar of discredited market economics our leaders have destroyed the auto
industry, yet continue to throw money at building expensive and defective
defence items instead of buying "off the shelf". Yet even these easy targets
turn out to be too easy; the flaccid opposition seems unable to strike a blow.

**James Ogilvie, Kew**

### Too many stand on the sidelines

In our "Orwellian" climate, I'm reassured that I am not alone in my concern for
our democracy. Sadly, however, it is not just Abbott & Co adhering to Newspeak.
Labor is also tainted by its adherence to the same metadata laws and asylum
seeker policies as the government. I have always believed my vote is precious
but I now find myself in the difficult position of not having any respect for,
or faith in, either of the major parties. It is not cynical mistrust but a
quiet fear about the direction this country is taking, as reflected by the fact
that Greens' Senator Sarah Hanson-Young was "spied upon" during a visit to
Nauru. And I wonder just how deluded we have become when so many people can
stand by apparently unconcerned about what is going on in our midst.

**Paulyne Pogorelske, East Melbourne**

### Coalition trashes our freedoms

Thanks, Colin Simmons, for reminding us that in Australia, Magna Carta has met
Big Brother. And it's primarily thanks to "Conservatives" and "Liberals" who
purport to be the defenders of our traditional wisdom and freedoms. They should
be called "the Destructives".

**Colin Smith, St Kilda** 


![1984](/20150620-theage-1984.jpg)


